scientists believe the Hawaiian monk
seal may not survive the threat to the
monk seal is not hunting but loss of
habitat in old Hawaii declaring an
animal couple was only part of the story
back then they understood that you
cannot protect the species without
protecting the ecosystem that supports
it but to protect an ecosystem you need
a detailed understanding of how it works
there were individuals in all Hawaii who
had just that they were called the Kona
Liki but Kona Liki was the one appointed
by the Chiefs to make sure that from the
top of the mountain all the way out to
the ocean that it was run efficiently
and with conservation in mind the Kona
hiki were all scientists they looked at
every detail in the world around them
they counted the birds monitored the
fish and decided whether the Highland
ecology was in balance Kiki call him a
game warden we call him the natural
resource manager he could you could call
him the judge as well when it came to
enforcing the couple today the Kona Liki
are all gone but the need for them is
just as great now it's up to anyone who
spends time in the world to watch out
for the environment at any hint of a
problem it's up to us to raise the alarm
we've got a you know we've got to be the
Kona hiki no